## General Terms and Conditions for Idana Local

Date: 2018-08-22

### Contracting partners

The contractual partners are Tomes GmbH, Engesserstr. 4a, 79108 Freiburg i. Br. as provider and the customer, who is an entrepreneur within the meaning of §14 BGB (German Civil Code).

### Subject of the Contract

These terms and conditions apply to the purchase and use of Idana Local, which is offered by Tomes GmbH for customers of Idana as a commercial extension. The software is provided by the provider for download and accesses the server and system components provided by Tomes GmbH for Idana.

The terms "Idana", "desktop app" and "patient app" are defined in the General Terms and Conditions for the Idana application (desktop app, patient app), which are available at[idana.one/en/gtc](https://idana.one/en/gtc).

The customer is allowed to use the Idana Local software for his own purposes during the term of this contract and to store and process his data with its help.

Idana Local must be purchased and configured separately for each user account of the customer.

### Conclusion of the contract and term

The contract comes into effect with the acquisition of the Idana Local expansion. The contract ends automatically 6 months after the customer terminates the Idana software or the contract for the use of the Idana software ends for other reasons.  

### Usage Requirements

Idana Local can only be operated in conjunction with Idana. To use Idana Local, the customer must perform the following activities:

1. install the installation file provided by Tomes GmbH on your own server. The server must meet the system requirements specified by Tomes GmbH.

2.  Ensure that each installation of the desktop app you want Idana Local to use has a continuous network connection to the Idana Local server and a continuous Internet connection.

### Services of Tomes GmbH

Idana Local enables the customer to store the patient data used in Idana on his own server. If Idana Local is installed and configured in the system environment in which Idana is used, the Idana desktop app stores patient data entered by the user directly in the Idana Local databases, no longer on the Tomes GmbH servers. In addition, the desktop app continuously retrieves new data records generated by the patient app from the Tomes GmbH servers and copies them decrypted into the Idana-Local database. Data records created with the patient app are stored on Tomes GmbH servers until Idana's desktop app retrieves them. If the desktop app is continuously connected to the Internet, the data retrieval takes place within a few seconds after a new data package arrives.

Access to Idana Local is protected by authentication, the access data is linked to the Idana account. Communication with the Idana local server is via encrypted HTTPS channels. For performance reasons, the data itself is stored unencrypted in Idana Local. The customer is responsible for maintaining IT security, e.g. by encrypting the drive on which the database is stored.

### Customer’s rights

Tomes GmbH grants the customer the non-exclusive, non-transferable, time-limited right to install Idana Local on one (1) server and to link it to one (1) user account registered in Idana for the duration of the contract. If Idana Local is to be used with several user accounts, a single license must be purchased for each one. Tomes GmbH reserves the right to check any use of Idana Local contrary to the contract and to block the software in case of infringements.

The software may not be modified - except to the extent necessary for error correction or intended use - nor may it be redeveloped, further developed or translated. Partial duplication of the written material for internal purposes is permitted insofar as this is necessary for the intended use of the software.

### Customer’s Obligations

When ordering the license, the customer is obliged to provide true information about the circumstances of use, in particular about the type of facility (e.g. individual or group practice or clinic department) and the software and hardware environment used.

The customer is obliged to protect Idana Local from access by unauthorized persons and to regularly back up the database.

The customer is obliged to delete Idana Local from his system after expiration of the contract.

The customer is obliged to immediately notify Idana of the assertion of alleged rights by third parties as well as defects or damages.

### Software Updates

Tomes GmbH offers software updates at irregular intervals. If an update is available, the customer will be informed about the procedure for the update. The software is not automatically updated.

The installation of the software update is a mandatory prerequisite for ensuring that the customer can use the latest version of the software and make use of the latest functionalities. The Tomes GmbH points out that the functionality is not or only limited usable, if the installation of the update is omitted. In this case, Tomes GmbH is released from any liability if it proves that the defect would not have occurred when installing the latest software version.

### Beta versions

The Tomes GmbH does not grant any guarantees or support for program versions, which are marked as beta or devel. This can be seen, for example, in the file name of the installation or the label in the App Store. These program versions are for test and development purposes and are not designed for productive operation. For this reason, data loss or incompatibility with other program versions is also possible.

### Use by third parties / Non-contractual use of software

The customer may neither sell the software Idana Local beyond the scope of this contract nor transfer it to others for a limited period of time, especially not rent or lend it.

### Purchase and payment conditions

The customer can purchase a chargeable license from Idana Local at any time. The conditions listed in the order apply. Orders can be placed by contacting Tomes GmbH using the contact details provided on the website.

The order represents an offer to conclude a sales contract. The customer receives a message confirming receipt of the order and listing its details. The purchase contract comes into effect with the dispatch of the software or a download link, via which the customer receives a separate e-mail. If the contract of sale is not concluded, amounts already paid will be refunded.

For deliveries outside the EU, the customer shall bear any import duties and taxes that may be incurred.

Each invoice will be sent by e-mail to the customer's address stated in the order and must be paid within fourteen days of receipt by bank transfer or by alternative payment methods listed in the invoice. If the Customer issues a SEPA Direct Debit Mandate, amounts will be collected on the next but one bank working day after the invoice is issued.

### Cancellation

The contract can be terminated by the customer at any time. If the customer terminates Idana, this contract is also automatically terminated 6 months later. This leaves the customer sufficient time to store his data.

### Changes to the General Terms and Conditions (GTC), Service Descriptions and Prices

These GTC may be amended insofar as this does not affect essential provisions of the contractual relationship and this is necessary for adaptation to developments which could not have been foreseen at the time the contract was concluded and whose failure to take account would noticeably disturb the balance of the contractual relationship. Essential regulations are in particular those concerning the type and scope of the contractually agreed services and the term including the regulations on termination. Furthermore, adjustments or additions to the GTC may be made insofar as this is necessary to eliminate difficulties in the execution of the contract due to loopholes arising after conclusion of the contract. This may be the case in particular if the case law changes and clauses of these GTC are affected by it.

### Delay

In case of delay in payment in a not insignificant amount, Tomes GmbH is entitled to block the use of the service at the customer’s expense. The assertion of further claims due to default of payment remains reserved to Tomes GmbH.

### Rights in Case of Defects

Tomes GmbH guarantees the contractual quality of the Idana software within the framework of the legal provisions.

### Liability

In the event of intent or gross negligence and in the absence of a guaranteed property, Tomes GmbH shall be liable without limitation for all damage resulting therefrom. In case of negligence Tomes is liable without limitation in case of injury to life, body and health. In all other respects, liability is excluded, whereby liability under the Product Liability Act remains unaffected.  

### Applicable Law

The entire contractual relationship between Tomes GmbH and its commercial contractual partner shall be governed by German law to the exclusion of the UN Sales Convention, subject to any other individual agreements. Place of performance towards commercial contractual partners is Freiburg im Breisgau.

German law shall apply to the contractual relationships of the contracting parties. Place of jurisdiction is Freiburg im Breisgau.

The GTC can also be found online at [idana.one/en/gtc-idana-local](https://idana.one/en/gtc-idana-local)
